README.md, before:

# vscode-commitlint

A VS Code extension that integrates [commitlint](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/commitlint) into [VS Code's commit editor](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/versioncontrol#_vs-code-as-git-editor).

**[Install from the Visual Studio Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=joshbolduc.commitlint)**

![Animation of a commit message with linting issues being corrected](images/vscode-commitlint.png)

## Features

- Runs commitlint against your commit message as you write it
- Reports lint [errors and warnings in the editor](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/editingevolved#_errors-warnings)
- Highlights relevant parts of the commit based on the specific issue
- Auto detects commitlint configuration by default
- Supports [all commitlint rules](https://commitlint.js.org/#/reference-rules?id=available-rules)
- Adds autocomplete support to `package.json` and `.commitlintrc.json` based on the [configuration schema](https://json.schemastore.org/commitlintrc.json)

## Settings

### `commitlint.config.file`

Path to a custom commitlint configuration file. Relative paths are resolved based on the workspace root. Leave blank to auto-detect.

### `commitlint.config.extend.rules`

Commitlint rules which will be extended.

**Example configuration as JSON syntax:**

```json
"commitlint.config.extend.rules": {
  "body-leading-blank": [1, "always"],
  "body-max-line-length": [2, "always", 100],
  "footer-leading-blank": [1, "always"],
  "footer-max-line-length": [2, "always", 100],
  "header-max-length": [2, "always", 50],
  "scope-case": [2, "always", "lower-case"],
  "subject-case": [2, "never", ["sentence-case", "start-case", "pascal-case", "upper-case"]],
  "subject-empty": [2, "never"],
  "subject-full-stop": [2, "never", "."],
  "type-case": [2, "always", "lower-case"],
  "type-empty": [2, "never"],
  "type-enum": [
    2,
    "always",
    ["feat", "fix", "docs", "perf", "refactor", "build", "ci", "revert", "style", "test", "chore"]
  ]
}
```

### `commitlint.log.enabled`

Whether to enable logging to the output panel.

## Requirements

To make the most out of this extension, you'll probably want to configure commitlint in your project and use VS Code as your git commit editor:

- [Getting started with commitlint](https://commitlint.js.org/#/?id=getting-started)
- [VS Code as Git editor](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/versioncontrol#_vs-code-as-git-editor)

Commit message:

feat: dynamically load local commitlint
Attempt to load commitlint libraries relative to the local environment
instead of using bundled versions, where available. Bundled versions
will still be used as a fallback.

Fixes #113

BREAKING CHANGE: The extension now attempts to use locally installed
copies of commitlint libraries to load commitlint configurations, parse
commit messages, and apply linting rules. If locally installed libraries
are not available, versions of those libraries bundled with the
extension will be used instead, as they were previously.

README.md, after:

# vscode-commitlint

A VS Code extension that integrates [commitlint](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/commitlint) into [VS Code's commit editor](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/versioncontrol#_vs-code-as-git-editor).

**[Install from the Visual Studio Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=joshbolduc.commitlint)**

![Animation of a commit message with linting issues being corrected](images/vscode-commitlint.png)

## Features

- Runs commitlint against your commit message as you write it
- Reports lint [errors and warnings in the editor](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/editingevolved#_errors-warnings)
- Highlights relevant parts of the commit based on the specific issue
- Auto detects commitlint configuration by default
- Supports [all commitlint rules](https://commitlint.js.org/#/reference-rules?id=available-rules)
- Adds autocomplete support to `package.json` and `.commitlintrc.json` based on the [configuration schema](https://json.schemastore.org/commitlintrc.json)

## Settings

### `commitlint.config.file`

Path to a custom commitlint configuration file. Relative paths are resolved based on the workspace root. Leave blank to auto-detect.

### `commitlint.config.extend.rules`

Commitlint rules which will be extended.

**Example configuration as JSON syntax:**

```json
"commitlint.config.extend.rules": {
  "body-leading-blank": [1, "always"],
  "body-max-line-length": [2, "always", 100],
  "footer-leading-blank": [1, "always"],
  "footer-max-line-length": [2, "always", 100],
  "header-max-length": [2, "always", 50],
  "scope-case": [2, "always", "lower-case"],
  "subject-case": [2, "never", ["sentence-case", "start-case", "pascal-case", "upper-case"]],
  "subject-empty": [2, "never"],
  "subject-full-stop": [2, "never", "."],
  "type-case": [2, "always", "lower-case"],
  "type-empty": [2, "never"],
  "type-enum": [
    2,
    "always",
    ["feat", "fix", "docs", "perf", "refactor", "build", "ci", "revert", "style", "test", "chore"]
  ]
}
```

### `commitlint.log.enabled`

Whether to enable logging to the output panel.

### `commitlint.preferBundledLibraries`

Whether to prefer using commitlint libraries bundled with the extension over locally installed versions.

## Requirements

To make the most out of this extension, you'll probably want to configure commitlint in your project and use VS Code as your git commit editor:

- [Getting started with commitlint](https://commitlint.js.org/#/?id=getting-started)
- [VS Code as Git editor](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/versioncontrol#_vs-code-as-git-editor)
